---
title: "ABB CoreSense HM and CoreSense M10"
date: "2026-05-19"
tipo: "Otro"
status: "Activa"
resumen: "View CSAF Summary An update is available that resolves vulnerability in the product versions listed as affected in this advisory. A path traversal vulnerability in these products can allow unauthenticated users to gain…"
publicacion: "draft"
---

## Contexto

View CSAF Summary An update is available that resolves vulnerability in the product versions listed as affected in this advisory. A path traversal vulnerability in these products can allow unauthenticated users to gain access to restricted directories. Exploiting this vulnerability can lead to complete system compromise and exposure of sensitive information. The following versions of ABB CoreSense HM and CoreSense M10 are affected: CoreSense™ HM <=2.3.1, 2.3.4 (CVE-2025-3465) CoreSense™ M10 <=1.4.1.12, 1.4.1.31 (CVE-2025-3465) CVSS Vendor Equipment Vulnerabilities v3 7.1 ABB ABB CoreSense HM and CoreSense M10 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') Background Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Food and Agriculture, Commercial Facilities, Critical Manufacturing Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide Company Headquarters Location: Switzerland Vulnerabilities Expand All + CVE-2025-3465 A path traversal vulnerability in these products can allow unauthenticated users to gain access to restricted directories. Exploiting this vulnerability can lead to complete system compromise and exposure of sensitive information. View CVE Details Affected Products ABB CoreSense HM and CoreSense M10 Vendor: ABB Product Version: CoreSense™ HM<=2.3.1, CoreSense™ M10<=1.4.1.12 Product Status: fixed, known_affected Remediations Vendor fix The vulnerabilities are corrected in the following version: CoreSense™ HM v2.3.4 & CoreSense™ M10 v1.4.1.31 ABB recommends that customers apply the update at the earliest convenience. Relevant CWE: CWE-22 Improper Limitation of a Pathname to a Restricted Directory ('Path Traversal') Metrics CVSS Version Base Score Base Severity Vector String 3.1 7.1 HIGH CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:N/A:N Acknowledgments ABB reported this vulnerability to CISA. Notice The information in this document is subject to change without notice and should not be construed as a commitment by ABB. ABB provides no warranty, express or implied, including warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, for the information contained in this document, and assumes no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document. In no event shall ABB or any of its suppliers be liable for direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damage of any nature or kind arising from the use of this document, or from the use of any hardware or software described in this document, even if ABB or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damage. This document and parts hereof must not be reproduced or copied without written permission from ABB, and the contents hereof must not be imparted to a third party nor used for any unauthorized purpose. All rights to registrations and trademarks reside with their respective owners. Mitigating factors The path traversal vulnerability is only exploitable when the attacker has local access to the machine hosting the web application (i.e., access to localhost). To mitigate this vulnerability, the affected products should be configured to restrict local access to authorized users only, ensuring that untrusted users cannot interact with the application directly on the host system. ABB has restricted file downloads to a specific directory designated solely for downloadable content. Strict input validation and path sanitization are implemented to ensure that only legitimate file paths within this directory can be accessed. Refer to section “General Security Recommendations” for further advise on how to keep your system secure. Frequently Asked Questions What causes the vulnerability? The vulnerability is caused by unchecked input data in the file parameter in the CoreSense products. What might an attacker use the vulnerability to do? An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability can allow unauthenticated users to gain access to restricted directories and can lead to complete system compromise and exposure of sensitive information. How could an attacker exploit the vulnerability? Path traversal would require that the attacker has access to the system local network, by connecting to the system directly or through a wrongly configured or penetrated firewall, or that he installs malicious software on a system node or otherwise infects the network with malicious software. Recommended practices help mitigate such attacks, see mitigating factors section. Could the vulnerability be exploited remotely? No. Can functional safety be affected by an exploit of this vulnerability? No. What does the update do? The update removes the vulnerability by modifying the way that the file parameter validates and verifies input data. When this security advisory was issued, had this vulnerability been publicly disclosed? No, ABB received information about this vulnerability through responsible disclosure. When this security advisory was issued, had ABB received any reports that this vulnerability was being exploited? No, ABB had not received any information indicating that this vulnerability had been exploited when this security advisory was originally issued. Legal Notice and Terms of Use This product is provided subject to this Notification (https://www.cisa.gov/notification) and this Privacy & Use policy (https://www.cisa.gov/privacy-policy). Recommended Practices CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the exploitation risk of these vulnerabilities. Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the internet. Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks. When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as virtual private networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most recent version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures. CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies. CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets. Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies. Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents. Advisory Conversion Disclaimer This ICSA is a verbatim republication of ABB 3KXG200000R4801 from a direct conversion of the vendor's Common Security Advisory Framework (CSAF) advisory. This is republished to CISA's website as a means of increasing visibility and is provided "as-is" for informational purposes only. CISA is not responsible for the editorial or technical accuracy of republished advisories and provides no warranties of any kind regarding any information contained within this advisory. Further, CISA does not endorse any commercial product or service. Please contact ABB directly for any questions regarding this advisory. Revision History Initial Release Date: 2025-04-16 Date Revision Summary 2025-04-16 1 Initial version. 2025-09-30 2 Addressed comments. 2025-10-07 3 Fixed incorrect links. 2025-10-20 4 Final version with corrected dates. 2026-05-19 5 Initial CISA Republication of ABB 3KXG200000R4801 advisory Legal Notice and Terms of Use

## Impacto potencial

Requiere evaluación según el contexto específico de cada organización.

## Recomendaciones

Pendiente.
