---
title: "Siemens Opcenter RDnL"
date: "2026-05-14"
tipo: "Otro"
status: "En monitoreo"
resumen: "View CSAF Summary Opcenter RDnL is affected by missing authentication in critical function in ‘ActiveMQ Artemis’. An unauthenticated attacker within the adjacent network could use the Core protocol to force a target…"
---

## Contexto

View CSAF Summary Opcenter RDnL is affected by missing authentication in critical function in ‘ActiveMQ Artemis’. An unauthenticated attacker within the adjacent network could use the Core protocol to force a target broker to establish an outbound Core federation connection to an attacker-controlled rogue broker. This could potentially result in availability impacts or message injection into any queue via the rogue broker. Breaking the integrity of a message has a low impact due to missing auto refresh functionality and it does not contain any confidential information. ActiveMQ Artemis has released a new version and Siemens recommends to update to the latest version. The following versions of Siemens Opcenter RDnL are affected: Opcenter RDnL vers:all/* CVSS Vendor Equipment Vulnerabilities v3 7.1 Siemens Siemens Opcenter RDnL Missing Authentication for Critical Function Background Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide Company Headquarters Location: Germany Vulnerabilities Expand All + CVE-2026-27446 Missing Authentication for Critical Function (CWE-306) vulnerability in Apache Artemis, Apache ActiveMQ Artemis. An unauthenticated remote attacker can use the Core protocol to force a target broker to establish an outbound Core federation connection to an attacker-controlled rogue broker. This could potentially result in message injection into any queue and/or message exfiltration from any queue via the rogue broker. This impacts environments that allow both: - incoming Core protocol connections from untrusted sources to the broker - outgoing Core protocol connections from the broker to untrusted targets View CVE Details Affected Products Siemens Opcenter RDnL Vendor: Siemens Product Version: Opcenter RDnL Product Status: known_affected Remediations Mitigation Implement and deploy a Core interceptor to deny all Core downstream federation connect packets. Such packets have a type of (int) -16 or (byte) 0xfffffff0. Documentation for interceptors is available at https://artemis.apache.org/components/artemis/documentation/latest/intercepting-operations.html . Mitigation Remove Core protocol support from any acceptor receiving connections from untrusted sources. Incoming Core protocol connections are supported by default via the "artemis" acceptor listening on port 61616. See the "protocols" URL parameter configured for the acceptor. An acceptor URL without this parameter supports all protocols by default, including Core Mitigation Use two-way SSL (i.e. certificate-based authentication) in order to force every client to present the proper SSL certificate when establishing a connection before any message protocol handshake is attempted. This will prevent unauthenticated exploitation of this vulnerability Vendor fix Update to Apache Artemis version 2.52.0 or later version Relevant CWE: CWE-306 Missing Authentication for Critical Function Metrics CVSS Version Base Score Base Severity Vector String 3.1 7.1 HIGH CVSS:3.1/AV:A/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:L/A:H Acknowledgments Siemens ProductCERT reported this vulnerability to CISA. General Recommendations As a general security measure, Siemens strongly recommends to protect network access to devices with appropriate mechanisms. In order to operate the devices in a protected IT environment, Siemens recommends to configure the environment according to Siemens' operational guidelines for Industrial Security (Download: https://www.siemens.com/cert/operational-guidelines-industrial-security), and to follow the recommendations in the product manuals. Additional information on Industrial Security by Siemens can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/industrialsecurity Additional Resources For further inquiries on security vulnerabilities in Siemens products and solutions, please contact the Siemens ProductCERT: https://www.siemens.com/cert/advisories Terms of Use The use of Siemens Security Advisories is subject to the terms and conditions listed on: https://www.siemens.com/productcert/terms-of-use. Legal Notice and Terms of Use This product is provided subject to this Notification (https://www.cisa.gov/notification) and this Privacy & Use policy (https://www.cisa.gov/privacy-policy). Recommended Practices CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the exploitation risk of these vulnerabilities. Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the internet. Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks. When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most recent version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures. CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies. CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets. Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies. Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents. Advisory Conversion Disclaimer This ICSA is a verbatim republication of Siemens ProductCERT SSA-085541 from a direct conversion of the vendor's Common Security Advisory Framework (CSAF) advisory. This is republished to CISA's website as a means of increasing visibility and is provided "as-is" for informational purposes only. CISA is not responsible for the editorial or technical accuracy of republished advisories and provides no warranties of any kind regarding any information contained within this advisory. Further, CISA does not endorse any commercial product or service. Please contact Siemens ProductCERT directly for any questions regarding this advisory. Revision History Initial Release Date: 2026-05-12 Date Revision Summary 2026-05-12 1 Publication Date 2026-05-14 2 Initial CISA Republication of Siemens ProductCERT SSA-085541 advisory Legal Notice and Terms of Use

## Impacto potencial

Requiere evaluación según el contexto específico de cada organización.

## Recomendaciones

Pendiente.
