---
title: "Siemens SIPROTEC 5"
date: "2026-05-14"
tipo: "Otro"
status: "En monitoreo"
resumen: "View CSAF Summary The SIPROTEC 5 devices do not use sufficiently random numbers to generate session identifiers. This could facilitate a brute-force attack against a valid session identifier which could allow an…"
publicacion: "draft"
---

## Contexto

View CSAF Summary The SIPROTEC 5 devices do not use sufficiently random numbers to generate session identifiers. This could facilitate a brute-force attack against a valid session identifier which could allow an unauthenticated remote attacker to hijack a valid user session. The affected session identifiers are only used in a subset of the endpoints that are provided by the affected products. Siemens is preparing fix versions and recommends countermeasures for products where fixes are not, or not yet available. The following versions of Siemens SIPROTEC 5 are affected: SIPROTEC 5 6MD84 (CP300) vers:intdot/=7.80|=7.80|=7.80|=7.80|=7.80|=7.80 (CVE-2024-54017) SIPROTEC 5 7SA82 (CP150) vers:intdot/=7.80|=7.80|=7.80 (CVE-2024-54017) SIPROTEC 5 7SD82 (CP150) vers:intdot/=7.80|=7.80|=7.80 (CVE-2024-54017) SIPROTEC 5 7SJ81 (CP150) vers:intdot/=7.80 (CVE-2024-54017) SIPROTEC 5 7SJ82 (CP150) vers:intdot/=7.80|=7.80|=7.80 (CVE-2024-54017) SIPROTEC 5 7SK82 (CP150) vers:intdot/=7.80|=7.80 (CVE-2024-54017) SIPROTEC 5 7SL82 (CP150) vers:intdot/=7.80|=7.80|=7.80|=7.80|=7.80|=7.80 (CVE-2024-54017) SIPROTEC 5 7UT82 (CP150) vers:intdot/=7.80|=7.80|=7.80|=7.80|=7.80|<11.0 (CVE-2024-54017) SIPROTEC 5 7VU85 (CP300) vers:intdot/<11.0 (CVE-2024-54017) SIPROTEC 5 Compact 7SX800 (CP050) vers:intdot/<11.0 (CVE-2024-54017) CVSS Vendor Equipment Vulnerabilities v3 5.3 Siemens Siemens SIPROTEC 5 Small Space of Random Values Background Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide Company Headquarters Location: Germany Vulnerabilities Expand All + CVE-2024-54017 Affected devices do not use sufficiently random values to create session identifiers. This could allow an unauthenticated remote attacker to brute force a session identifier and gain read access to limited information from the web server without authorization. View CVE Details Affected Products Siemens SIPROTEC 5 Vendor: Siemens Product Version: SIPROTEC 5 6MD84 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 6MD85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 6MD86 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 6MD89 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 6MU85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7KE85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SA82 (CP100), SIPROTEC 5 7SA82 (CP150), SIPROTEC 5 7SA86 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SA87 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SD82 (CP100), SIPROTEC 5 7SD82 (CP150), SIPROTEC 5 7SD86 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SD87 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SJ81 (CP100), SIPROTEC 5 7SJ81 (CP150), SIPROTEC 5 7SJ82 (CP100), SIPROTEC 5 7SJ82 (CP150), SIPROTEC 5 7SJ85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SJ86 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SK82 (CP100), SIPROTEC 5 7SK82 (CP150), SIPROTEC 5 7SK85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SL82 (CP100), SIPROTEC 5 7SL82 (CP150), SIPROTEC 5 7SL86 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SL87 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SS85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7ST85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7ST86 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SX82 (CP150), SIPROTEC 5 7SX85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7SY82 (CP150), SIPROTEC 5 7UM85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7UT82 (CP100), SIPROTEC 5 7UT82 (CP150), SIPROTEC 5 7UT85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7UT86 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7UT87 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7VE85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7VK87 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 7VU85 (CP300), SIPROTEC 5 Compact 7SX800 (CP050) Product Status: known_affected, known_not_affected Remediations None available Currently no fix is available Vendor fix Update to V11.0 or later version https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/ww/en/view/109814150/ Vendor fix Update to V11.0 or later version https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/ww/en/view/109757433/ Vendor fix Update to V11.0 or later version https://support.industry.siemens.com/cs/ww/en/view/109796884/ Relevant CWE: CWE-334 Small Space of Random Values Metrics CVSS Version Base Score Base Severity Vector String 3.1 5.3 MEDIUM CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:L/I:N/A:N Acknowledgments Siemens ProductCERT reported this vulnerability to CISA. SEC Consult Vulnerability Lab reported this vulnerability to Siemens. General Recommendations Operators of critical power systems (e.g. TSOs or DSOs) worldwide are usually required by regulations to build resilience into the power grids by applying multi-level redundant secondary protection schemes. It is therefore recommended that the operators check whether appropriate resilient protection measures are in place. The risk of cyber incidents impacting the grid's reliability can thus be minimized by virtue of the grid design. Siemens strongly recommends applying the provided security updates using the corresponding tooling and documented procedures made available with the product. If supported by the product, an automated means to apply the security updates across multiple product instances may be used. Siemens strongly recommends prior validation of any security update before being applied, and supervision by trained staff of the update process in the target environment. As a general security measure Siemens strongly recommends to protect network access with appropriate mechanisms (e.g. firewalls, segmentation, VPN). It is advised to configure the environment according to our operational guidelines in order to run the devices in a protected IT environment. Recommended security guidelines can be found at: https://www.siemens.com/gridsecurity Additional Resources For further inquiries on security vulnerabilities in Siemens products and solutions, please contact the Siemens ProductCERT: https://www.siemens.com/cert/advisories Terms of Use The use of Siemens Security Advisories is subject to the terms and conditions listed on: https://www.siemens.com/productcert/terms-of-use. Legal Notice and Terms of Use This product is provided subject to this Notification (https://www.cisa.gov/notification) and this Privacy & Use policy (https://www.cisa.gov/privacy-policy). Recommended Practices CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the exploitation risk of these vulnerabilities. Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, and ensure they are not accessible from the internet. Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolate them from business networks. When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most recent version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as its connected devices. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures. CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies. CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets. Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies. Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents. Advisory Conversion Disclaimer This ICSA is a verbatim republication of Siemens ProductCERT SSA-786884 from a direct conversion of the vendor's Common Security Advisory Framework (CSAF) advisory. This is republished to CISA's website as a means of increasing visibility and is provided "as-is" for informational purposes only. CISA is not responsible for the editorial or technical accuracy of republished advisories and provides no warranties of any kind regarding any information contained within this advisory. Further, CISA does not endorse any commercial product or service. Please contact Siemens ProductCERT directly for any questions regarding this advisory. Revision History Initial Release Date: 2026-05-12 Date Revision Summary 2026-05-12 1 Publication Date 2026-05-14 2 Initial CISA Republication of Siemens ProductCERT SSA-786884 advisory Legal Notice and Terms of Use

## Impacto potencial

Requiere evaluación según el contexto específico de cada organización.

## Recomendaciones

Pendiente.
