---
title: "Universal Robots Polyscope 5"
date: "2026-05-14"
tipo: "Phishing"
status: "En monitoreo"
resumen: "View CSAF Summary Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to bypass authentication and execute code. The following versions of Universal Robots Polyscope 5 are affected: Polyscope 5…"
---

## Contexto

View CSAF Summary Successful exploitation of these vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to bypass authentication and execute code. The following versions of Universal Robots Polyscope 5 are affected: Polyscope 5 <5.25.1 CVSS Vendor Equipment Vulnerabilities v3 9.8 Universal Robots Universal Robots Polyscope 5 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') Background Critical Infrastructure Sectors: Critical Manufacturing Countries/Areas Deployed: Worldwide Company Headquarters Location: Denmark Vulnerabilities Expand All + CVE-2026-8153 OS command injection in Dashboard Server interface in Universal Robots PolyScope versions prior to 5.25.1 allows unauthenticated attacker to craft commands that will execute code on the robot's OS. View CVE Details Affected Products Universal Robots Polyscope 5 Vendor: Universal Robots Product Version: Universal Robots Polyscope 5: <5.25.1 Product Status: known_affected Remediations Vendor fix Universal Robots has released Polyscope 5 version 5.25.1.For more information, see Universal Robots article: https://www.universal-robots.com/articles/ur/cybersecurity/cve-2026-8153-command-injection-in-the-polyscope-5-dashboard-server/. https://www.universal-robots.com/articles/ur/cybersecurity/cve-2026-8153-command-injection-in-the-polyscope-5-dashboard-server/ Relevant CWE: CWE-78 Improper Neutralization of Special Elements used in an OS Command ('OS Command Injection') Metrics CVSS Version Base Score Base Severity Vector String 3.1 9.8 CRITICAL CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:H/A:H Acknowledgments Vera Mens of Claroty Team82 reported these vulnerabilities to CISA Legal Notice and Terms of Use This product is provided subject to this Notification (https://www.cisa.gov/notification) and this Privacy & Use policy (https://www.cisa.gov/privacy-policy). Recommended Practices CISA recommends users take defensive measures to minimize the risk of exploitation of these vulnerabilities. Minimize network exposure for all control system devices and/or systems, ensuring they are not accessible from the internet. Locate control system networks and remote devices behind firewalls and isolating them from business networks. When remote access is required, use more secure methods, such as Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), recognizing VPNs may have vulnerabilities and should be updated to the most current version available. Also recognize VPN is only as secure as the connected devices. CISA reminds organizations to perform proper impact analysis and risk assessment prior to deploying defensive measures. CISA also provides a section for control systems security recommended practices on the ICS webpage on cisa.gov/ics. Several CISA products detailing cyber defense best practices are available for reading and download, including Improving Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity with Defense-in-Depth Strategies. CISA encourages organizations to implement recommended cybersecurity strategies for proactive defense of ICS assets. Additional mitigation guidance and recommended practices are publicly available on the ICS webpage at cisa.gov/ics in the technical information paper, ICS-TIP-12-146-01B--Targeted Cyber Intrusion Detection and Mitigation Strategies. Organizations observing suspected malicious activity should follow established internal procedures and report findings to CISA for tracking and correlation against other incidents. CISA also recommends users take the following measures to protect themselves from social engineering attacks: Do not click web links or open attachments in unsolicited email messages. Refer to Recognizing and Avoiding Email Scams for more information on avoiding email scams. Refer to Avoiding Social Engineering and Phishing Attacks for more information on social engineering attacks. No known public exploitation specifically targeting these vulnerabilities has been reported to CISA at this time. Revision History Initial Release Date: 2026-05-14 Date Revision Summary 2026-05-14 1 Initial Publication Legal Notice and Terms of Use

## Impacto potencial

Empleados con acceso a sistemas corporativos o cuentas bancarias pueden ser el objetivo directo.

## Recomendaciones

Pendiente.
